Alone will come back to the intro to this course.
And today we're going to talk about deep learning and get to know what this whole field is all about.
Learning is quite an advanced area of this science one of the most advanced areas.
And originally deplorably came to be somewhere in the 70s and 80s and then it kind of faded away because
computers were not powerful enough and now it's resurfaced again because computers are indeed much more
powerful than back then and we can process lots more data and therefore deeply is relevant again.
So here we've got a gentleman whose name is Jeffrey Hinton and he is also known as the godfather of
deep learning.
He worked on this problem back in the 80s and now that it's rough surface again he is one of the leading
experts in the world of deep learning.
And Jeffrey Hinton currently works for Google.
You can find lots of talks with him on YouTube lots of his presentations.
He's very good at explaining.
Please if you ever need to reference something my personal first point of call is to check what this
Jeffrey Intan has to say about it.
And then if I don't find anything by him then I continue searching.
So that's Jeffrey Hinton.
And so what he is deploring all that well in order to understand the pattern we have to take a step
back and actually delve a little bit into neuroscience.
So we've got an image which portrays neurons smeared onto glass with some coloring applied.
And specifically in the right image you can actually see them quite well.
These are a specific type of neuron they're called motor in your hands.
The reason they're used in this image is because they're generally bigger than typical neurons in the
brain and therefore they're easier to see.
But the neurons in the brain still have the same structure same concepts apply.
And as you can see they have arms and legs of their own they have a body you have a nucleus inside you
can clearly see the nucleus.
And while we don't know what exactly happens the human brain and it's still being studied is lots of
research being put into the human brain at the same time.
We do know what it consists of and we do know what the overall pattern kind of is and the overall pattern
is that there's tons and tons and tons of these neurons and they're all interconnected and they're sending
electrical impulses to each other and somehow through.
That's what we get is learning.
And here is an example of a cross-section of the human brain.
And they're in you can really see that there are tons of little neurons in there and in the human brain
is actually a hundred billion neurons if you stop to think about that number for a second that's a hundred
billion neurons or even a million or ten billion 100 billion and imagine how many connections there
is between them when every neuron can connect to multiple different neurons to like hundreds or thousands
different neurons.
And this cross-sections actually of that part of the brain at the bottom which is responsible for your
motor function and for keeping balance and staying staying upright and upon among among other things
of course.
And so yeah that's how the human brain structure there's lots of these neurons are interconnected and
somehow through passing signals to each other we eventually what we get is human learning and memory
retention.
And so the idea behind deep learning is to take what evolution has given us to take this concept of
interconnected neurons and recreate it artificially.
And that's why they're called artificial neural networks as well because we're recreating these neural
networks artificially.
And the idea is to it like in through a programming structure create these neurons that are interconnected
and come up with a way for them to pass signals to each other and so that they learn.
And the difference between deep learning and machine learning is drastic in machine learning.
We have pretty coded algorithms coded procedures methods and ways that these algorithms work and then
we get we get to train them up and so on.
So the structures are quite fixed there whereas in deep learning all we create is a this artificial
neural network and then we let it learn on its own.
That's a core difference.
We we set up the rules of the game on how the signals will be passed what back refrigeration is which
like or how the inputs get into the neural and how they go out of the network.
But then we leave it alone and we let it just learn on its own.
And that's the key difference between machine learning and deep learning that's why people are is usually
gets much better results than machine.
The drawback though is that deeper learning requires a lot of input a lot of data in order to be for
us to train a deploring and to finish off here are a couple of examples of deep learning types of deep
learn they're going to look at six.
They're broken down into two categories supervised deploring and unsupervised supervised learning is
when we have training day and when we know the answer.
And then we train algorithm there and then we can apply it in the future to new data and then figure
out the answer there unsupervised is when we don't know what we're actually looking for when we want
to kind of like in clustering we want to want to apply the algorithm.
So it tells us the answers even though we don't really have the answers.
Even in the past already for ourselves.
So let's have a look.
I've got some interesting animations prepared by artificial neural networks.
Corrosion on your own networks and recurrent neural networks.
So those are the three core types of deep learning of supervised learning.
Artificial neural networks are the base ones that you will need to know in order to know any other type
of deporting.
In conclusion all that usually deal with images and image recognition and recurrent neural networks
usually deal with memory retention so so assessing sequences so when you have for instance for instance
in language translation you would reply a recurrence to your own network or a specific type called an
Alice T.M. long short term memory network.
And so here are some examples of the top Amen's or those are the short names and then CNN Arnon and
ends are used for regression and classification CNN's are used for computer vision and RNA as use for
time series analysis unsupervised learning.
All right.
Fire.
We've not self-organizing maps deep Boltzmann machines and honor and Coras self-organizing maps are
perhaps the easiest type of deep learning.
And they are used for feature detection depost machines are probably one of the most difficult types
of deep learning.
And they're not actually used in practice because they've been proven extremely confutation all heavy.
Theoretically they're very interesting and they they have merit.
But for now in practice they're not really used our own Choros are a interesting type of unsupervised
learning and they are used for recommender systems in practice.
So let's have a look.
Here's an example of future direction recommendations this relations system.
So there we go there's a quick overview of learning.
Of course this world is much richer and broader than what we just discussed here.
And if you're interested to dive in.
There are multiple resources.
For instance this specific structure is the one we believe in and that's why we structure our course
on deep learning in this specific order about the six parts to it.
At the same time there are other resources which you can find on any any specific type of the this or
these neural networks were there.
And as CNN's ordnance.
So I hope you enjoyed this Tauriel and I look forward to seeing you next.
Until then enjoy datasets.